Let's talk about testing UI, right?
So again, what we're talking about
is this white box in here, right?
There's a page, this page has
a whole bunch of things on it.
What we just wanna assert, just like
when we were talking about the whole
application, we were focusing on a unit.
Our unit of testing now is gonna
become just this white box in In here.
And we wanna assert that we can
correctly render this white box.
So how is this box rendered?
So here's our component, which we call
cluster, and it gets ClusterProps.
And these props are gonna be the data set,
the width and the height.
And it looks like the size is optional,
right?
The size of the box on the screen, right?
And so all it does is grabs the data set,
right, and we iterate over the data set.
And for each item in a data set,
we create, in this case,
a b element where we pass in left top
with the compute properties, colors, etc.
Now, you could do several things.
First of all, you could definitely
unit test the compute position, right?
This would be a good function to make sure
that this thing is doing what you think
it's doing.
I assume that's not gonna be very hard, or
we don't have to go because
we've already kind of done it.
But how would you unit test
this particular component?
You could write a kind
of a snapshot where you
assert that the JSX that comes out
of this is of the correct shape.
But that doesn't actually answer
whether it looks right, right?
So what you really want is
a way to instantiate this
component in isolation and
take an image screenshot of it and
then compare it against
the previous image screenshot.
And it turns out that such a thing already
exists, and it's is called storyblock,
storybooks, sorry,
not storyblocks, different thing.
Storybook, the idea is you put
individual components on a page,
you control different things,
different inputs on it, etc.
And you take an image screenshot
of this particular output to see
how this thing is working.
So let's install this.
Oops, Let's see, I believe we
have to run a special command.
Let's see, integration, so every framework
will have a different way of doing this.
Or a storybook, okay, here we go.
Let's run this command.
So this installs the storybook
inside of our application.
Now, this is specific to different
frameworks, we'll have different things.
This is not the The important bit,
let's just go and install it.
And more we're gonna talk about
how we actually create a test.
Basic idea of Storybook is you
have lots and lots of components,
think of it like a design
system in your application.
And what you wanna do is you wanna
be able to get each component up and
running in isolation.
And then poke at it in isolation to kind
of see if the right things are actually
happening.
And because we are talking about
a visual representation of what we want,
really turns out that image snapshots
are really the only good way to kinda
prove that the thing looks like the way
we intended it to look like, right?
Because you could easily create
a CSS change somewhere in the global
style sheet, which would affect
the way your component renders.
Okay, now if I remember correctly,
I believe, I already have storybook, okay?
So now once we have this,
>> Qwik just adds those scripts for you?
>> Yes, a lot of frameworks have a CLI
that does the kind of the setup for you.
Okay, so what does this look like?
In this case, this is just a demo test,
we will add our own test in a second, but
basic idea is that, you have a button,
and then in this particular case,
you said,
this is what the buttons should look like.
And then in here,
you can click on a button and
you can kinda interact with it
to see if it kinda makes sense.
You can also go here and
say medium, I think large.
So you can get a large button,
you can do small, right?
So you can kind of prove to yourself
the things are rendering the way you want.
So let's create a test now for
our cluster.
What you wanna do is you wanna export.
And as a convention,
they call it the primary for a second.
So let's create different situations.
So let's call a first one called square.
And square is going to be a story.
And what is a story?
Type Story=Story object,
which we import and It's
gonna take ClusterProps.
And we have to create a default export so
that the storybook knows how to load this.
And the component we're testing
is Cluster, argTypes.
I don't think you have to declare them for
now.
Oops, let's just empty this thing.
And,
Okay, so with this,
we should be able to create a first story.
Let's create a super simple one.
So for now, I am just going to say dataset
Dataset is,
Right, so let's just leave this empty for
a second.
Wait, I'll show you how
to fill this in a second.
And oops, args.
And we want to have width, oops,
Width is 250, height is 250,
and let's say size, is,
And now we've created to say,
how do we render this?
And so we're just going to create
a Cluster and oops, this takes props.
And okay, I know it's red,
I think I'm gonna come back to it later,
but I believe that that
should be enough to, okay,
maybe I have to restart this,
to pick it up.
What am I missing here?
Source components, right, because the
default place is source components, right?
For whatever reason, we did not put our
component in the right location and
I think it is in storybook main.
And we just say anything,
not just components.
Lets click Start.
Here we go.
Okay, so now we have our cluster and
we have our default one called Square.
And we can't really see it
unless we flip the darkness.
How do I do dark?
It's not gonna show it,
I have to have a dataset.
Okay, I think I have to have a dataset,
I'm not gonna escape this.
Cluster stories.
Okay, so let's do the dataset.
So we need to come up with clusters.
And we could do it manually or remember,
we already have this function
that does the clustering, right?
So if we If we could just
push in data into it, so
we can say we wanna put in a squareData.
And let's do the parameters
of it being 10.
Actually, here.
We can say const Square cluster
10, 2 are the parameters.
And so
now we have to pass in our longitude 0.
So to make a square,
right, you would do 0, 0,
0, not longitude, it's ing.
You would do make 0, 0, 0, 1, 1.
And so those are four points
in the corner, right?
And so now that we have this
fed through the clustering,
I can pass it to my data and
I should see the box.
Here we go.
So now this box is too big,
can I zoom out?
Right, so
we have a box now with four points.
Notice, just like when
we were unit testing,
we didn't wanna do the real dataset,
instead,
we're making up our dataset that is useful
for us from testing perspective, right?
And having four particular points in
the space to be able to do that is useful.
Does that make sense?
So now the thing to do is to be able
to maybe create other scenarios.
So let's say we wanna
create a diagonal scenario.
So we have a square, and
let's create a diagonal.
And maybe we wanna create a smaller one
just to kind of prove that the sizing
works.
And so
now we have to come up with a diagonal.
Diagonal would be 0, 0, 1, 1,
2, 2, maybe 3, 3, right?
So now notice we have the square but
I can also go to diagonal and
prove that this particular thing works.
Mm-uh, it seems a little squished, no?
What did I mess up?
Because I didn't do 200 here.
There we go.
So we have a diagonal.
So this is how you would test
your items in isolation, right,
that are independent from everything
else in your code base, right?
Just like with unit tests, we were trying
to isolate and not have to worry about
the whole world, and
we just wanna test one particular thing.
This particular thing would allow you to
do the same thing in isolation as one.
But the basic idea here
of storybook is that,
it allows you to treat your components
as individual units, right?
And because they're individual units,
what you can do is,
for example, here is our square, right?
And I can go and modify, so if I go to the
clusters, I see that I have keys in here.
And go and actually modify these numbers.
So I can decide that this is now 1,
maybe that was too much.
Now this is 0.5, I could type 0.5.
And I have actually moved
the visual representation, right?
So it is a way for you to poke at
your components in an isolated way so
that you can then assert
that the right UI happens.
So in this particular case,
when we did our clustering,
the second cluster was distance 10,
we can change the distance to 1.
And now if we go to diagonals,
the diagonal should be in different color.
Because if I make it 1,
I have to say minimum cluster size,
right, we have to say 1.
So now each one is a separate dot,
right, different colors.
So now we've decided to break it
into separate clusters, right?
This also might be a useful test for you.
So the way you would taste UI components
is in terms of visual representation
rather than behavioral.
I mean, you could do behavioral as well,
but in terms of visual, right?
And again, you don't wanna do an assertion
on the whole page or whole application, or
you don't wanna do an assertion
on the humongous dataset.
Like I wouldn't wanna assert, on, well,
it's not running right now, here,
I wouldn't wanna assert on this
because if something goes wrong or
whatever it would be
super difficult to see.
You wanna assert on essentially the unit
test kinda philosophy where it's
very clear as to what is going inside and
what's coming out of the system.
>> I thought I heard you say
earlier that some of this,
like when you get to testing components in
a visual way, it can be a bit more flaky.
Is that more with integration tests or
even something like this,
where you're just testing a single
component at a time and single snapshots?
>> So we should talk about
where does flakiness come from?
Flakiness usually comes from the network.
So If you're actually talking to the
outside world, whether it's database or
something like that,
you could in theory have flakiness, right?
And usually the way flakiness are dealt
with is that you do retries and
exponential backups, you wait and
try again, see if it kinda works out.
And usually, these frameworks have
it built in, but at some point,
you will encounter the fact that things
just don't pass for whatever reason.
Stuff like Storybook,
because there really is no network, right,
it's all integrated together into one page
where the components are instantiated,
the data is fixed, etc,
they should have extremely low flakiness.
It probably still might have flakiness
because it still It still requires that
a browser be brought up.
It still requires that something like
Playwright would sit on top of it and
try to poke on it and interact with it.
And all of those require that you
have some behavioral changes, right?
But it should be pretty
low in terms of flakiness.
So I would expect this to be almost no
flakiness, whereas if you do an end-to-end
test of your application,
it'd probably be a lot more flaky.